\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This file uses the @command command introduced in Texinfo 4.0.
@c %**start of header
@setfilename barriers.info
@settitle Compute local minima and energy barriers of landscape
@finalout
@setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 0.9.0

@ifinfo
This file documents the @command{barriers} command which computes local
minima and energy barriers of landscape

Copyright (C) 2001 Ivo Hofacker, Christoph Flamm, Peter Stadler

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title barriers
@subtitle Compute local minima and energy barriers of landscape
@subtitle for barriers Version @value{VERSION}
@author by Ivo Hofacker, Christoph Flamm, Peter Stadler

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001 Ivo Hofacker, Christoph Flamm, Peter Stadler

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end titlepage

@c All the nodes can be updated using the EMACS command
@c texinfo-every-node-update, which is normally bound to C-c C-u C-e.
@node Top, Instructions, (dir), (dir)

@ifinfo
This file documents the @command{barriers} command to Compute local minima and energy barriers of landscape.
@end ifinfo

@c All the menus can be updated with the EMACS command
@c texinfo-all-menus-update, which is normally bound to C-c C-u C-a.
@menu
* Overview::                    Preliminary information.
* Sample::                      Sample output from @command{barriers}.
* Invoking barriers::           How to run @command{barriers}.
* Problems::                    Reporting bugs.
* Concept Index::               Index of concepts.
@end menu

@node Copying, Overview, Top
@include gpl.texinfo

@node Overview, Sample, Copying, Top
@chapter Overview
@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

The @command{barriers} program reads an energy sorted list of conformations
of a landscape, and computes local minima and energy barriers of the
landscape. For RNA secondary structures, suitable input is produced by
@command{RNAsubopt}. For each local minimum found it prints to stdout, the
conformation of the minimum, its energy, the number of the "parent"-minimum
it merges with, and the height of the energy barrier. Additional
information on each minimum, such as saddle point conformation and basin
sizes can be included via options.  A PostScript drawing of the resulting
tree is written to "tree.ps" in the current directory.

@command{barriers} was written by Ivo L. Hofacker, Christoph Flamm, and
Peter F. Stadler.

@node Sample, Invoking barriers, Overview, Top
@chapter Sample Output
@cindex sample

The following example calculates all 6 local minima in the energy landscape
of the small RNA sequence @t{GGCGUCGCCUGACG} (with the help of
@command{RNAsubopt} from the Vienna RNA Package
@url{http://www.tbi.univie.ac.at/~ivo/RNA/}).  

This is the output of the command
@samp{echo GGCGUCGCCUGACG | RNAsubopt -e 7 -s | barriers}:

@example
   1 ..((((....))))  -2.70    0   7.00
   2 (((...))).....  -2.20    1   4.00
   3 ..............   0.00    1   1.70
   4 .....((.....))   2.00    1   0.50
   5 ((......))....   2.40    1   1.10
   6 (.((.....)).).   2.60    1   0.90
@end example
In this example the 2nd local minimum has an energy of -2.2 kcal/mol and
converts into the global optimum via an energy barrier of 4 kcal/mol.

This is the output of the command @samp{barriers --help}:

@example
Usage: barriers [OPTION...] [FILE...]
Compute local minima and energy barriers of landscape

  -q, --quiet, --silent      Inhibit usual output
  -v, --verbose              Print more information
  -?, --help                 Give this help list
      --usage                Give a short usage message
  -V, --version              Print program version
  -G <Graph>        define graph type.
  --bsize           log the basin sizes
  --max <digit>     compute only the lowest <digit> local minima
  --minh <de>       print only minima with barrier > de
  --saddle          log the saddle point structures
  -M Move-Set       select move-set
  -P <l1>=<l2>      backtrack path between lmins l2 and l1 (l1 < l2)

  FILE  must have RNAsubopt output-format sorted by energy

  Graph Types and Move Sets are:
    RNA             RNA secondary structures
    RNA-noLP        canonical RNA structures
        [no]Shift       with/out shift moves [default with]
    Q2              Spin Glass
                        point mutation [no other options]
    Qa              a-letter Hamming (not yet)
    T               Phylogenetic Trees
        NNI             NNI moves [no other options yet]
    P               Permutations
        T               Transpositions [default]
        C               Canonical Transpositions
        R               Reversals
@end example

@node Invoking barriers, Problems, Sample, Top
@chapter Invoking @command{barriers}
@cindex invoking
@cindex version
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help
@cindex getting help

The format for running the @command{barriers} program is:

@example
barriers @var{option} @dots{}
@end example

@code{barriers} supports the following options:

@c Formatting copied from the Texinfo 4.0 manual.
@table @code
@item --quiet
@itemx --silent
@itemx -q
Inhibit usual output.

@item --verbose
@itemx -v
Print more information.

@item --help
@itemx -?
Print an informative help message describing the options and then exit
successfully.

@item --usage
Briefly list the options.

@item --version
@itemx -V
Print the version number of @command{barriers} on the standard output
and then exit successfully.
@end table

@node Problems, Concept Index, Invoking barriers, Top
@chapter Reporting Bugs
@cindex bugs
@cindex problems

If you find a bug in @command{barriers}, please send electronic mail to
@email{ivo@@tbi.univie.ac.at}.  Include the version number, which you
can find by running @w{@samp{barriers --version}}.  Also include in your
message the output that the program produced and the output you
expected.@refill 

If you have other questions, comments or suggestions about
@command{barriers}, contact the author via electronic mail to
@email{ivo@@tbi.univie.ac.at}.  The author will try to help you out, 
although he may not have time to fix your problems.

@node Concept Index,  , Problems, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

@cindex tail recursion
@printindex cp

@shortcontents
@contents
@bye
